 What is a virtual machine❓
It is software that simulates a computer system and can run programs as if it were a real computer. It allows the creation of multiple simulated environments or dedicated resources from a single physical hardware system.

▪️ Why you have chosen Debian❓
This is a personal thing for everyone, my opinion: The subject itself explains that it is easier to do it in Debian and if you look for documentation/tutorials there are many and all of them have been done in debian.

What is the purpose of virtual machines❓
Their purpose is to provide a hardware platform and operating system independent execution environment, which hides the details of the underlying platform and allows a program to always run the same way on any platform.

▪️ Differences between apt and aptitude ↙️
Aptitude is an enhanced version of apt. APT is a lower-level package manager and aptitude is a high-level package manager. Another big difference is the functionality offered by both tools. Aptitude offers better functionality compared to apt-get. Both are able to provide the necessary means to perform package management. However, if you are looking for a more feature-rich approach, Aptitude should be it.

Aptitude est une version améliorée d'apt. APT est un gestionnaire de paquets de niveau inférieur, tandis qu'aptitude est un gestionnaire de paquets de niveau supérieur. Une autre grande différence réside dans les fonctionnalités offertes par les deux outils. Aptitude offre de meilleures fonctionnalités qu'apt-get. Les deux outils sont capables de fournir les moyens nécessaires à la gestion des paquets. Cependant, si vous recherchez une approche plus riche en fonctionnalités, Aptitude devrait vous convenir.

▪️ What is APPArmor❓
A security module in the Linux kernel that allows the system administrator to restrict the capabilities of a program.

▪️ What is LVM❓
It is a logical volume manager. It provides a method for allocating space on mass storage devices, which is more flexible than conventional partitioning schemes for storing volumes.

1 ◦ Verify that no graphical interface is in use.
ls /usr/bin/*session

2 ◦ Check that the UFW service is in use.
sudo ufw status
sudo service ufw status

3 ◦ Check that the SSH service is in use.
sudo service ssh status

4 ◦ Check that you are using the Debian or Centos operating system.
uname -v o uname --kernel-version

5 ◦ Check that your user is within the "sudo" and "user42" groups.
getent group sudo
getent group user42

6 ◦ Create a new user and show that it follows the password policy we have created.
sudo adduser name_user and enter a password that follows the policy.

7 ◦ We create a new group named "evaluating".
sudo addgroup evaluating

8 ◦ We add the new user to the new group.
sudo adduser name_user evaluatingi

9 ◦ Check that the machine's hostname is correct login42.
hostname

10 ◦ Modify hostname to replace your login with the evaluator's. In this case, we will replace it with student42.
sudo vim /etc/hostname 
sudo vim /etc/hosts

11 ◦ Check that all partitions are as indicated in the subject.
lsblk

12 ◦ Check that sudo is installed.
which sudo
dpkg -s sudo

13 ◦ Add the new user to the sudo group.
sudo adduser name_user sudo

14 ◦ Show the application of the rules imposed for sudo by the subject.
cat /etc/sudoers.d/sudo_config

15 ◦ Show that the path /var/log/sudo/ exists and contains at least one file, in this we should see a history of the commands used with sudo.
cat /var/log/sudo/sudo_config

16 ◦ Check that the UFW program is installed on the virtual machine and check that it works correctly.
dpkg -s ufw
sudo service ufw status

17 ◦ List the active rules in UFW, if the bonus part is not done, the rule for port 4242 should only appear.
sudo ufw status numbered

18 ◦ Create a new rule for port 8080. Verify that it has been added to the active rules and then you can delete it.
sudo ufw allow 8080
sudo ufw status numbered

udo ufw delete num_rule

19 ◦ Check that the ssh service is installed on the virtual machine, that it works correctly, and that it only works on port 4242.
which ssh
sudo service ssh status

21 ◦ Modify the runtime of the script from 10 minutes to 1.
file sudo crontab -u root -e

22 ◦ Finally, make the script stop running when the server has started, but without modifying the script.
sudo /etc/init.d/cron stop
sudo /etc/init.d/cron start

sudo systemctl stop cron
sudo systemctl start cron

In evaluation, you may need to stop the cron forever, and after reboot VM, cron should remain disabled.

sudo systemctl disable cron
sudo systemctl start cron

